policy review document (#8)
LavaMoat/lavamoat.github.io: src/content/docs/guides/policy-diff.md

---
title: Reviewing Policy
description: How to review LavaMoat Policy and its diffs
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->

This guide will help you review your policy on a continuous basis.

## Why review Policy?

The Policy File generated by LavaMoat is based on a scan of your codebase, identifying all the powers it uses. The initial policy doesn't provide security on its own. Instead, it's your review of the initial policy and the subsequent updates (with new or updated dependencies) that makes your application secure.

Reviewing diffs as you go lets you spot suspicious packages or limit the powers you wish newly added packages can use.

> The review of your initial policy may seem like a lot of effort, but it's an investment in a good starting point for your application.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The review of your initial policy may seem like a big investment, but it's  a good starting point for your application.  
```

Author: I intend to say "investment" as a good thing. If optimizing for brevity, this sentence is redundant. It's here to motivate. Yes, you need to put work in, but it pays off.

> If you generate the initial policy from a known uncompromised version of your application the main purpose of the initial review is to potentially take away some of the excessive powers from packages you don't use in their full capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you generate the initial policy from a known uncompromised version of your application, the main purpose of the initial review is to potentially take away some of the excessive powers from packages you don't use in their full capacity.
```

## How to review your policy?

LavaMoat Policy is listing all powers that a package can use. That's what you'll find in `globals` and `builtin` fields.
It also lists which other packages are allowed for the current package to import. You can follow those relations to see whether a package with access to very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) is used by any suspicious packages as a dependency. See [Principle of Least Authority][PoLA]

### What to look for when reviewing a Policy diff?

> The goal of rviewing the diff is to spot a malicious package being added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of reviewing the diff is to spot a malicious package being added.
```

#### TL;DR
- check `globals` and `builtins` for new powers and investigate if you're surprised the package would need them

> - check if new relationships in `packages` are pointing to packages with very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) (eg. spawning child processes in Node.js)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- check if new relationships in `packages` are pointing to packages with very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) (e.g. spawning child processes in Node.js)
```

> - be aware that the identifier may change to `pkgC>actual-name` from `pkgB>pkgA>actual-name` BUT! If the package now also has totally different powers it's likely a different package of the same name. Investigate! `npm ls actual-name` should help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- be aware that the identifier may change to `pkgC>actual-name` from `pkgB>pkgA>actual-name` BUT! If the package now also has totally different powers, it's likely a different package of the same name. Investigate! `npm ls actual-name` should help.
```

Reviewer: worth mentioning `yarn why actual-name` for repos using Yarn?

Author: I did that for the allow-scripts readme and regretted it later. 
I could mention `yarn list` tho

> - whn a new package is added, consider limiting its powers to what you actually use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- when a new package is added, consider limiting its powers to what you actually use.
```

#### Good practices for spotting suspicious changes:

First of all - you need to check if any of the packages get access to new [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) unexpectedly.

If a package that was supposed to only be doing basic string operations is suddenly also using `fetch` and `process.env` in your build system, you should give it a closer look or add 
```
"fetch": false,
"process": false
```
to the globals for that package in policy-override.json

> When a new dependency shows up in `packages` field of *packageA*, look up what it's pointing to and if the dependency has access to very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis), doublecheck whether it makes sense to you that *packageA* would need to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new dependency shows up in `packages` field of *packageA*: look up what it's pointing to and if the dependency has access to very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis); doublecheck whether it makes sense to you that *packageA* would need to use it.
```

Author: you're good with this stuff. British education shows? :D

When dependency tree changes it's possible that the dependency nesting might change, so the shortest identifier for one of the resources may now be `pkgC>actual-name` not `pkgB>pkgA>actual-name`.
But there are other more nefarious reasons why that could happen.
If the package now also has totally different powers or dependencies listed it's likely a different package of the same name. There can be more than one `actual-name` named package in this case. It could have been introduced as a different version or a totally different package installed from git or as a bundled dependency. 

Whn a new package is added, consider limiting its powers to what you actually use.

### What to look for in initial review?

The goal of reviewing the initial policy is to spot where packages are given powers that allow them escaping LavaMoat protections or abusing the application.

> The minimal viable review is to look at the `globals` and `builtins` fields of the policy file to see if any of the packages have access to [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) that you don't expect them to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimal viable review is to look at the `globals` and `builtins` fields of the policy file to see if any of the packages have access to unexpected [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis). 
```

---
title: Reviewing Policy
description: How to review LavaMoat Policy and its diffs
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable no-inline-html -->

This guide will help you review your policy on a continuous basis.

## Why review Policy?

The Policy File generated by LavaMoat is based on a scan of your codebase, identifying all the powers it uses. The initial policy doesn't provide security on its own. Instead, it's your review of the initial policy and the subsequent updates (with new or updated dependencies) that makes your application secure.

Reviewing diffs as you go lets you spot suspicious packages or limit the powers you wish newly added packages can use.

The review of your initial policy may seem like a lot of effort, but it's an investment in a good starting point for your application.  
If you generate the initial policy from a known uncompromised version of your application, the main purpose of the initial review is to potentially take away some of the excessive powers from packages you don't use in their full capacity.

## How to review your policy?

> LavaMoat Policy is listing all powers that a package can use. That's what you'll find in `globals` and `builtin` fields.

Author: 1. we could do that with the release of new tools. It's also cheap to keep supporting the old name. 
2. It's a graph representation and while ability to import packages is technically resolved like a power, it's conceptually means of accessing transitive powers. I decided to define it like that so the term power is easier to define as a powerful API of the platform (which a dependency is not)

It also lists which other packages are allowed for the current package to import. You can follow those relations to see whether a package with access to very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) is used by any suspicious packages as a dependency. See [Principle of Least Authority][PoLA]

### What to look for when reviewing a Policy diff?

The goal of reviewing the diff is to spot a malicious package being added.

> #### TL;DR

Author: It's a TLDR of this paragraph - what to look for.

- check `globals` and `builtins` for new powers and investigate if you're surprised the package would need them
- check if new relationships in `packages` are pointing to packages with very [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) (e.g. spawning child processes in Node.js)
- be aware that the identifier may change to `pkgC>actual-name` from `pkgB>pkgA>actual-name` BUT! If the package now also has totally different powers, it's likely a different package of the same name. Investigate! `npm ls actual-name` should help.
- when a new package is added, consider limiting its powers to what you actually use.

> #### Good practices for spotting suspicious changes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Best Practices for Finding Suspicious Changes
```

[this site](https://titlecase.com) is helpful for me 😄

> First of all - you need to check if any of the packages get access to new [powerful APIs](#powerful-apis) unexpectedly.

Reviewer 2: consider enumerating these things in a list

Author: I considered it initially and went with a prose on a gut feeling that the TLDR is for fans of lists and this feels right for someone who wants a deeper understanding. Can change later.

If a package that was supposed to only be doing basic string operations is suddenly also using `fetch` and `process.env` in your build system, you should give it a closer look or add

```json
"fetch": false,
"process": false
```

> to the globals for that package in policy-override.json

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the `globals` field for that package in `policy-override.json`.
```
